# booking-system
My project is a prototype of Booking reservation online website, which allows users to book tickets for buses, trains and flights, to travel to any place within India.There are mainly three parts of this website – The admin portal, the user portal,guest portal apart from other attributes such as help window, know about Indian transport window and about us window. The Admin window allows the admin to add and delete a vehicle from the chart, put the chart and update the chart, view the passenger list, and to add and delete an admin. While the user portal allows a user to view the available vehicles and book tickets, the guest portal helps the user to see the available vehicles, but doesn’t allow him to book a ticket, as only registered users can book tickets. It asks him to sign up, and asks the user to enter the required credentials such as name, age, phone number, e-mail id, and gets a Username and password from the user, given upon which he’s allowed to enter the user portal. 
When a user confirms the vehicle he wants to book a ticket in, the website re-directs him to the payment window, and when the user gives the “Proceed” button, the bank website opens and asks him for a choice between Debit Card payment and Net Banking. The bill amount is calculated according to the ages of passengers entered by the user and service tax is accordingly added. Finally the bill containing each and every detail is printed. If the user decides to cancel his/her ticket, the user portal provides an option to do that. It asks for the PNR number which is available in the bill. If given correctly, the ticket is cancelled with 50% deduction.
Basic concepts used in this project are Functions, Database Management System(DBMS), Graphical User Interface (GUI)  viz. Tkinter module, File concept, lists, and Sequence and Selection Control Structure viz. while, for, if and nested if statements. 

